# SimulierteWelten2025Backup
A Backup Repo for the Quantum Algorithms created during the "Simulierte Welten"-Project for the Light's OUT! problem.
This Repo contains an approach at solving the Light's OUT! problem on a Quantum Computer.
The Puzzle is as follows:
You start with an n by n board of Lights. Each Light is either turned on or off, with the goal beeing to turn every lamp off. If a Lamp is turned on or off, all of its neighbors are toggled as well.
It is a solved Problem, meaning that it was already proven that every initial configuration is solveable. It was also proven that no lamp needs to be toggled more than once in any solution and that the order of toggles does not matter. The Light's Out! Puzzle is one of the so-called NP-Problems, meaning that, although it is difficult to find a solution, once found, it can easily be proven true or false.
Thus, a Quantum Computer proves very efficient in solving this problem. Essentially, it is able to create a superposition of all solutions and, using Grover's Search Algorithm, pick out the correct one. There are great explanations of Grover's Algorithms online, but it uses a function called an "Oracle" to flip the sign of the correct solution. Then, the so-called Diffusion-Operator reflects all values around a common mid-point and the x-axis repsectively, bringing the target qubit closer to the correct solution. Iterating this around sqrt(N) times (where N is the number of possible solutions) usually yields the correct solution. To make sure, this algorithms is run multiple times, until a solution sticks out.
Sadly, this currently only works in theory. On a real Quantum Computer, Noise gets in the way, the Qubits interact with each other and the environment in wierd ways or just fall back to their ground state.
